so to start off we have the projector
now this is the Optima Full HD 3d
projector it's also capable of mounting
onto the roof now so if you guys won by
a projector to mount onto the roof
you're gonna have to look on the details
of each projector now I really like this
projector it cost me 600 pounds
it's the HD 131 X II from Amazon there
will be a link in the description below
as well now this is full 3d with 1080p
I've also bought some glasses which were
generic from China and they're actually
pretty good but every now and then they
do go out of sync and so you can see
both both frames of it basically and to
make up the 3d so next we have the
Pioneer amplifier now you don't need an
amplifier but we wanted the full speaker
system that goes at 5.1 surround sound
now this is capable of things like radio
tuner it has a multi HDMI inputs it also
lets you choose between like if you want
to connect to your ipod or you can
connect that you via USB and it'll play
the song that you want to choose off
your phone this is a really good
amplifier the one the ones that they
sell these days however they do also
have airplay built in now I bought mine
just before this next generation came
out it cost me about 250 quid but they
can range between 200 and 300 pounds it
doesn't really matter which one you get
all of them are going to be decent
enough now you can get bose ones which
cost quite a lot pioneer seems to do
very good ones and any in the end I'm
very pleased with all of it now one
thing to remember is that say if you
want to switch your input the way to do
it is to switch on your amplifier and
change the input there instead of
actually changing the input on the
projector because all the HDMI cable
go straight to the amplifier from the
projector now talking about HDMI cables
we also did have to buy two or three
heavy-duty 10 meter 15 meter HDMI cables
to run around the room these are
underneath the carpets so you can't
really see them at all and I fit them in
very well now next we have is the
Raspberry Pi this is one of the modes
that I use to say watch films on there's
also the Sky box there's also the Xbox
360 as well now all three of these are
very capable of being enlarged onto a
projector screen now I forgot to tell
you that my projector screen itself is
120 inch now I'm only getting 115 inch
of that because I did my calculations
wrong there's there's a link in the
description below on how to calculate
the screen size so when we first install
the projector we didn't have any sort of
sound proofing or light proofing for the
room because it was my living room in
the first place and we didn't really
want to spend much on it anyway now the
way we cured the light proofing is that
we bought these blackout blinds which
which cost me about 30 40 quid now we
wanted to get the suede ones with the
chrome railings and overall I think the
finish of that looks a lot lot better
than and the ones without the chrome
railings on them the suede finish also
gives a nice touch to it and makes the
room look good and we also bought brown
ones because they matched our room
already so if you guys want to build a
cinema room but don't want to sort of
like make it into its very own cinema
room and into a normal living room you
want to make it I'd advise you to get
blackout blinds because we had office
blinds before and they were they
basically let in as much light as as
possible basically and on these blackout
blinds block out like 99% of the light
and therefore say in the daytime you can
still watch you projector without any
problems
there's one bad thing about having all
these things is that there's a lot of
remotes to them now there's one for my
electronic screen which goes up and down
there's one for my projector and one for
the amp now if you wanted to minimize
the number of remotes you can get an
all-in-one remote however they do they
are quite costly they do range from
about 100 pounds upwards so I didn't
really want to get one of them now the
screen projector itself the of the
screen is a 4 by 3 120 inch screen it
cost me 50 pounds from Amazon now this
is fully electronic I I decided to get
this because I didn't want to have a
built-in screen into my wall I wanted to
have it come up and down in front of my
existing TV now this screen works very
well I've had no issues with it at all
the postage came pretty quick actually
and fully for what you get I really
think it's really worth it to get an
electric screen because you get the
remote and you can lift it up and down
but um there we have it guys so things
to think about when you're installing
your own home cinema is firstly the
screen size that you want you're gonna
have to measure your room out and there
will be a link in the description how to
do this oh and then the next thing is to
decide how to basically mount everything
we had to buy a few mounts for our
projectors for the projector I bought
some chains to hang up the the screen
itself now make sure you drill these
into a beam because that'll keep it up
as the projector is quite heavy itself
and mine seems very sturdy it hasn't
moved out of place um lifting the
projector in the air and thing it was
quite a quite a hassle it does need 2
people because you do need someone to
hold a projector and then you need
someone else to screw it in so we've
also got a cable tidy which runs around
the back so you can't see the cables
itself which makes it look a lot better
overall the cinema itself is it's very
good and so that's my cheap home cinema
guide it cost me about a thousand pounds
and if you liked the video please like
comment and scribe and also if you have
any questions on how I did this please
comment below